.TH AIRRADAR 1 "August 2025" "airradar 5.0.0" "WiFi Security Tools"

.SH NAME
airradar \- WiFi Security Radar Suite for professional WiFi security analysis

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B airradar
.br
.B airradar-gui
.br
.B airradar-pentest

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B airradar
is a comprehensive WiFi security analysis suite featuring modern interfaces, 
comprehensive theming, and advanced penetration testing capabilities. It provides
professional-grade tools for WiFi network discovery, security assessment, and
vulnerability analysis.

The suite consists of multiple tools:
.IP \[bu] 2
.B airradar
- Main launcher with plugin-based architecture
.IP \[bu]
.B airradar-gui
- Navigation Enhanced WiFi Radar with professional interface
.IP \[bu]
.B airradar-pentest
- Modern Penetration Testing Radar with advanced threat analysis

.SH FEATURES
.TP
.B WiFi Network Discovery
Automatic detection and analysis of nearby WiFi networks with comprehensive metadata collection.

.TP
.B Security Analysis
Multi-factor vulnerability assessment with threat level classification and attack vector identification.

.TP
.B Professional Visualization
Multiple visualization modes including Grid, Polar, and Heatmap displays with real-time updates.

.TP
.B Plugin Architecture
Modular design enabling easy addition of new tools and functionality.

.TP
.B Configuration Management
JSON-based configuration system for all aspects of scanning, analysis, and visualization.

.TP
.B Accessibility Support
Full accessibility features including high contrast modes, keyboard navigation, and screen reader support.

.TP
.B Internationalization
Multi-language support with translation templates for global deployment.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
.TP
.B Operating System
Linux distributions (Ubuntu 18.04+, Debian 10+, Kali Linux 2020.1+)

.TP
.B Permissions
Root privileges required for wireless interface scanning and monitoring

.TP
.B Hardware
WiFi adapter supporting monitor mode (recommended for advanced features)

.TP
.B Dependencies
Python 3.8+, PyQt5 5.15+, wireless-tools, iw

.SH OPTIONS
Run each command without arguments to access the interactive interface. 
Configuration options are available through the GUI settings dialogs or 
by editing the config.json file.

.SH FILES
.TP
.I config.json
Main configuration file containing scanning, analysis, and visualization settings
.TP
.I accessibility_settings.json
Accessibility configuration including contrast modes and keyboard navigation
.TP
.I theme_settings.json
Theme and visual customization settings
.TP
.I language_settings.json
Internationalization and language preferences
.TP
.I oui_database.json
Local vendor database for MAC address to manufacturer mapping

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Launch the main application launcher:
.B sudo airradar

.TP
Start the navigation enhanced interface directly:
.B sudo airradar-gui

.TP
Launch the penetration testing radar:
.B sudo airradar-pentest

.SH SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS
This tool is designed for educational purposes and authorized security testing only.
Users must ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Unauthorized
network scanning may be illegal in your jurisdiction.

.B WARNING:
Only scan networks you own or have explicit written permission to test.

.SH TROUBLESHOOTING
.TP
.B No wireless interfaces detected
Check that wireless interface exists with 'iwconfig' or 'iw dev'. Ensure interface
is up with 'sudo ip link set wlan0 up'.

.TP
.B Permission denied errors
Application requires root privileges. Always run with 'sudo'.

.TP
.B NetworkManager conflicts
Temporarily stop NetworkManager with 'sudo systemctl stop NetworkManager' if 
scanning fails.

.TP
.B PyQt5 import errors
Install PyQt5 with 'sudo apt install python3-pyqt5 python3-pyqt5-dev'.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error (missing dependencies, permission issues, etc.)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by the airradar development team.

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/vinothvbt/airradar/issues

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025 airradar contributors.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iwconfig (8),
.BR iw (8),
.BR aircrack-ng (1),
.BR wireshark (1)

For complete documentation, see: https://github.com/vinothvbt/airradar#readme